welcome to the man of recaps this is
better call Saul season 1 remember Saul
Goodman the sleazy lawyer from Breaking
Bad well at the end of the show when it
all went down he paid someone to change
his identity and hide from the cops
he's now managing a Cinnabon how did he
end up in this terrible situation let's
go back before he was Saul Goodman his
real name is Jimmy McGill he's a
small-time lawyer but he's got that
silver tongue and a flair for
showmanship he's doing public defender
cases for no money he's got his tiny
office that he also sleeps in in the
back of a nail salon cucumber waters for
customers only
but he's after a great case right now
the Cattlemen's he's the city treasurer
and his suspected of embezzling like a
couple million dollars if he gets this
case it would change his life but the
wife decides to think about it for now
and they go with a real law firm not
just any law firm Hamlin Hamlin McGill
McGill that's Jimmy's last name yeah
it's his brother Chuck's law firm and
his partner Howard Hamlin is a Jimmy's
rival kind of a douche
his brother chuck is on an extended
sabbatical he's got all the lights off
in his house because he's developed this
rare condition where he's allergic to
electricity so Jimmy's over there every
morning helped bring his brother
groceries and stuff but one day Oh Jimmy
hits a skateboarder when they try to
shake him down for money he calls him
out for an obvious scam see back in
Chicago he used to be slippin Jimmy he
was a small-time con man but he was
really good at it
he's like all right kids I got a job for
you I want you to run your skateboard
scam on mrs. Kettleman that way I can
swoop in and be her hero maybe she'll
sign with me but mrs. Kettleman hits and
runs turns out they hit the wrong car
it's this old Mexican lady and her
grandson is none other than Tuco
Salamanca the crazy violent gangster
from Breaking Bad he knocks those punks
out Jimmy shows up grabs him to brings
him all out to the middle of the desert
Jimmy tries to explain how it was just a
horrible mix-up but Sukkos probably
gonna kill him anyway luckily his friend
nacho is a bit more level-headed he's
like look if we kill you it'll probably
bring us more trouble we'll let you go
these Punk's though they called Tuco's
grandma a business so he's gonna kill
them so Jimmy has an impromptu desert
court session where Tuco wants to give
them the death penalty and Jimmy manages
to talk him down to just a couple broken
legs later not show fines Jimmy he's
like hey those kettlemans they have a
couple million in cash sitting around
their house you helped find where it is
and we'll steal it Jimmy is like you
know I don't want to get involved with
that and he's like look if you're not
gonna help
do it myself so Jimmy disguises his
voice calls the kettlemans tells them
they're in danger but the next morning
they're gone they've been kidnapped
nachos the prime suspect because the
neighbor saw him casing the neighborhood
not just like yo I didn't do it I didn't
have a chance yet and you're gonna fix
this or I'm gonna murder you now the
parking attendants at the courthouse is
none other than Mike Ehrmantraut the old
guy from Breaking Bad who eventually
became waltz out of security he's a real
stickler for having the right amount of
parking stickers so he and Jimmy have a
disagreement but get to talking he's
like you know when I used to be a cop
I've seen this before
the kettlemans probably kidnapped
themselves they just ran away to hide
for a bit so Jimmy follows that hunch
and sure enough finds him with a big bag
of cash he's like well if you guys gotta
come back turn yourselves in she's like
yeah we'll come back but we're not
giving up the cash here we'll give you a
chunk of it if you don't tell anyone
about it so he's off the hook with nacho
and he's got a nice wad of cash to get
his law practice going
he buys one nice suit and a giant
billboard exactly copying Hamlin style
this lawyer working for him is Kim
Wexler she and Jimmy are old friends and
maybe used to date whoa of course he has
to take the Billboard down so he makes a
protest video and once you know what the
worker pulls off right then
so Jimmy rushes up there to rescue him
and naturally the guy was in on it
though but they got the whole thing on
tape
and Jimmy's now a local hero he hides
the newspaper from his brother because
back when he was slippin Jimmy he
finally got in some real trouble for
taking a dump through someone's sunroof
Chuck got him out of it but Jimmy
doesn't want to think that he's
regressing but Chuck thinks it's weird
he didn't get his paper so he Braves the
outside world to go grab his neighbor's
naturally to an outsider he looks kind
of crazy so they call the cops on him
and then he sounds kind of crazy so they
busted his doorman taser him they bring
him to the hospital which is the worst
place he could be so they finally
explained his condition to a doctor but
she's like hmm turns on a thing without
him knowing and proves that his
condition is actually just mental she's
like look Jimmy you should have your
brother committed so he can get the help
he needs but he's like yeah I'm not
gonna do that to my brother he's fine
except for this one thing anyway Jimmy's
publicity stunt has gotten him a lot of
calls this guy wants to secede from the
union this guy's made a potty training
talking toilet that talks really sexual
but there's an old lady that just needs
a lawyer to do her will and she can
actually pay so Jimmy decides to
specialize in elder law and he is real
charming with the oldies speaking of
oldies Mike Ehrmantraut gets visit from
some old Philly cops who used to work
with they're looking into the murder
to cops and they think the killer might
be the same guy who killed Mike's son
back in the day so Mike brings Jimmy as
his lawyer but he's like look all I want
you to do is spill this coffee on the
young guys jacket Mike grabs the guy's
notebook and turns out they don't have
any evidence of their suspicion that
Mike killed the cops yes they were the
dirty cops that killed his son now back
to the kettlemans Kim's gotten them a
great deal where if they return the
money they do very little jail time but
the wife's crazy she's like we are not
returning any money because there is
none were innocent so they go back to
Jimmy but this is an unwinnable case so
he hires Mike to steal the money from
them he gives them a bill that's sprayed
with UV stuff so that he can track the
fingerprints find their stash and
they've stolen a giant bag of cash
should't decides to do the right thing
put his share back in and give it to the
DA and sends them back to Kim but now
Jimmy is broke again now why isn't Jimmy
just working out his brother's law firm
well when he first got out of prison
Chuck gave him a job at the mailroom and
Jimmy secretly put himself through law
school and passed the bar that's when he
was dating Kim by the way and his
brothers like y'all Congrats you should
work here but it was Howard Hamlin who
said Jimmy I don't like you I we're not
gonna hire you here so that's why
Jimmy's doing his own thing elder law is
going pretty well but this one old lady
he realizes that her assisted living
facility is overcharging her and he does
way too much work of actually trying to
put all these back together and working
with Chuckie realizes they've got a
serious case here but it's way too big
for Jimmy and Chuck alone they've got to
bring it in to HHM and Chuck wants to go
in so he gets a foil-lined jacket they
turn off all the power there and for the
first time in two years he's back at the
office
Howard's like Jimmy this is an amazing
case you're gonna get a huge chunk of
money at the back end when it's done but
the catch is you can't work on it I
don't like you you can't be working here
and Jimmy's like what's up with this guy
now Mike moved to New Mexico to be with
his granddaughter and his
daughter-in-law and they're you know
short on money so Mike goes to the local
veterinarian who works as a recruiter
for illegal jobs he gets a bodyguard gig
for this really nerdy pharmacist guy
gta5 is like hey old man you didn't even
bring a gun Mike's like I don't need one
I'll just take yours knocks him out big
guy runs away too and Mike's like look
you pay me for three let's go pharmacist
stole some pills from work and he's
selling them to nacho and with Mike's
help supervising the deal goes real
smooth now Jimmy is real pissed at
Howard that he can't work this case but
he realized his phone was low on battery
saw the missed call from Chuck to Howard
and he's like it was you brother that
didn't want me working there why and
it's like because you are not a lawyer
you're slippin Jimmy and you're a
disgrace to the law profession Jimmy's
like huh well I'm not bringing you
groceries anymore I'll tell you that
so Jimmy has a breakdown at bingo and
storms off storms all the way to Chicago
in fact where he finds his best friend
right where he left him they pull the
classic fake rare coin scam and Jimmy
loves it he was born for this he goes on
a big con-artist bender until they're
pulling the dead rich guy scam and his
friend takes it too far he actually died
so Jimmy gets his lucky pinkie ring but
Kim calls him turns out they're bringing
in another firm on the Sandpiper case
and without Chuck to intervene they're
totally down to hire Jimmy
so Jimmy comes back to Santa Fe but he
has an existential crisis he's like Mike
did we really have millions of dollars
in cash no one knew about I should have
just taken that so he bails on being a
lawyer and that's how season 1 comes to
an end
[Music]